In this video we're going to go a little
bit more in depth about the Internet
protocol and kind of talk to you
about packets or data grams.
Same thing.
>> Right.
>> So, let's take a look at kind
of what the Internet protocol is.
Now, a lot of this information up
there is just pulled from Wikipedia.
Feel free to go search Internet
protocol in your search engine and
go to the Wikipedia page.
You'll find a lot of this stuff up there,
this is kind of just
a condensed form of it.
But yeah, so if you want to
take a look at the screen here,
you can see just kind of the basic
points of what Internet protocol is.
And what is it?
Well, it's the principal communications
protocol for the Internet Protocol Suite.
And there's that terminology.
>> Right, that we mentioned before.
>> You remember, it's the same thing.
We're just saying that-
>> It's a way for
computers just to talk to each other.
>> Yeah, that being said, the Internet
protocol is kind of what's used,
like he said, to take a computer,
a device, right?
That's hooked into a network and
then have that device or
that network hooked into other networks.
So that's kinda basically
what the Internet is.
It is just a bunch of networks connected
to each other working over this
Internet protocol, right?
So I think that's how it first started.
>> Yeah, it's just a way to standardize
all the messages and sending,
receiving, cuz if you have
different ways to encode it,
it would be very difficult
to understand everything.
>> Yeah, it's universal, right?
They had to come up with version for
this, but this is how it started.
You call I think a single network,
the intranet, right?
So you could have a university that
functions on their own intranet, and
that's a private version of the Internet
and then they take their network and
they hook it up to the Internet
where all these other intranets or
networks are hooked into and you get,
and they're all working under the same
protocol basically to send and
receive their packets of information.
>> Right. Right. And
then you get a giant web of everything.
>> Yeah.
So we're gonna be working with
the same protocol using our
VoIP-
>> Right.
>> Software.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Right.
>> Or our void per application.
Great, so as you can see there, we talked
about this in the last lesson, but
right now you have two different versions
to choose from for the Internet protocols.
You have IVP or IPv4 and IPv6,
what happened to one, two, three and five?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Who knows.
>> Who knows, yeah.
No, this is the most prominent one so
you'll basically see those floating
around these modules and on the Internet.
All right so, the datagram
construction kinda talking a little
bit more in depth about Internet
protocol or packet, right?
You can see on I guess the second
level from the bottom,
you have IP header and IP data.
So I'm gonna kinda shrink this.
We're gonna talk a little
bit more about it.
IP header and IP data, every packet or
datagram has a header and
a payload, so essentially a header
telling it where it needs to go.
[COUGH] And then a payload which is data,
information it wants to send.
Going a little bit more in depth on
this particular packet as a whole, if
you look at the very top the application
side, well this is the application layer,
this is where kind of,
the interaction is happening, so to say.
Then you have the transport layer where
it gets all of this stuff ready to
be transported,
ends up at the IP layer and,
or the Internet layer where
it sets the addresses,
gets it all rounded up and throws it out,
and then the hardware level.
So that would be the link
to the hardware level.
There's not much more to
really go into this, but
I mean this is a very
high level explanation.
There's a lot more to do
with the Internet protocol.
We will run into it
again I think later on,
module four or something
>> Right.
Huh.
>> When we start to build the application.
But until then,
it should be enough, otherwise feel
free to go search the Internet and-
>> Look up-
>> Internet protocol.
Yeah, internet protocol.
>> Diagrams.
>> Yeah, have some fun with it.
It's definitely a lot of
information to absorb.
But there you go.
We'll see you in the next video.
And yeah.